Jonathan Figg: starts recording. Okay, so we're doing the Trent Thomas
Jonathan Figg: Today,
Jonathan Figg: So you're being referred to us for a history of opioid use correct. Awesome. Okay. How can I help you today.
new: I don't know if my first time trying to virtual thing.
new: I don't know, it's just getting into some program, I guess anything that's better.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, for this for this purpose. This is just like a regular doctor's visit. Right. We can talk about all the same stuff. Everything's confidential.
Jonathan Figg: Just the same, so think of this just like a normal doctor's visit. So tell me about your, your history with opiates and your history with treatment and what's currently going on, let's kind of start with what's currently going on.
new: I don't know, I guess.
new: I've been messing with them for like two or three years pretty consistently.
new: And then just recently. I went to like that. I didn't need to go to the ER, for any reason, but they have a program there and they like gave me a week supply and then suggested that I talk to you guys. So that's my current situation. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: What led you to go to the ER to look for treatment.
new: I'm done with the done it for a couple years ago we had pretty fed up with the same repeat cycle every day.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so tell me about that. What so you said you've done it for a couple years. So how did you start using opiates.
new: I'm not too sure I don't know one thing went to another, but
new: They fit. Then they started to fit well with work because I could play it off. Good and stuff like that. And I was doing construction. So it just it fit well if I environment, but
new: I'm trying to get help. Now because I i want to come. I'm done with it. You know, like, I know you're not going to stop it. You know, I know, I tried to stop. Many times, and I didn't want to, you know, that's why I fell back to it. That's why I feel different this time.
Jonathan Figg: To what we're using
new: ox oxy and federal okay
Jonathan Figg: And what did you start with
new: oxy okay
Jonathan Figg: And how did you get that the first time. Do you remember
new: On the streets.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Um, and so, you started with oxy and then did you use both oxiana fentanyl at the same time. Did you move from
new: It started with a little bit of Marco's and then Marco's led to the oxy and then it was oxy for a year or two. And then the last year was like
new: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: How are you using each of those things.
new: Never need or anything. Never smoking just sorting or ingesting
Jonathan Figg: Okay, how are you using the fentanyl
new: snorting as well, maybe a little bit of smoking.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Okay, and what form of it. Were you buying
new: Hills of oxy powder sent out or no. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: Did you ever have an overdose.
new: Now, okay.
Jonathan Figg: Did you ever end up in the hospital for it in in any way.
No.
new: But will days I shouldn't have woke up, I felt like now I see, okay.
Jonathan Figg: So you had some close calls. Okay. Were you progressively spending more money on it over time.
new: For sure. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Were you spending more time trying to get it over time.
new: Unnecessarily more time to access to it, but more money into it. Okay, three to four to five know
Jonathan Figg: What do you feel like lead from your change from one medication to the next.
new: Or tolerance.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so you are noticing less of an effect from what you were using. So you move to something stronger over time.
new: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Um, tell me about the times where you tried to quit.
new: This relationship like gotten a relationship tried to quit and stuff.
new: last little bit, but then fall back and do it because I i got clean for a little bit. But, you know, like two, three weeks into it, you still feel like shit. I'm just like,
new: Well, I just kept going back to
Jonathan Figg: Okay, did you quit cold turkey each time.
new: I have once or twice, and I have it once or twice.
Jonathan Figg: When you didn't quit cold turkey once or twice. How did you attempt to quit.
new: Trying to wean myself off, you know, that doesn't work. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever gotten treatment before now.
new: No. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: No methadone or Suboxone and kind of inpatient or outpatient treatment.
new: I went to some fucking detox thing one time for like a couple days, just to isolate myself I
new: went and did that for two days, but
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
new: Sorry, you are anything everything I did was on my own will. I say,
Jonathan Figg: How long ago was that attempt to with the detox program.
new: A couple months ago.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So you talked about that you feel like you're just done with it is kind of how you phrase that what what's going on now.
Jonathan Figg: That puts a stronger desire in you to quit.
new: Dry ghosts relationship.
new: Trying to
new: Make a move in my life, I guess, you know, once
Jonathan Figg: Okay, what are you concerned might happen if you don't quit.
new: Or die for sure. Okay.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So I see that I'm just pulling a prescription history that you did get prescribe Suboxone and then your printer fame. There's two different prescriptions.
Jonathan Figg: So it looks like you recently went to the end, or did you go back. How did that.
new: Happen recently went
Jonathan Figg: To the emergency room or
new: I told you I they have like some opiate program. I don't even know it was like, I guess maybe they don't. Maybe it was just, I don't know, but
new: I was told, like, I don't know. I was talking to somebody some opiate like lady at the emergency room, and that's how she leaked me into you guys and then like
new: She was just like, come into the emergency room. They'll give you like a week supply that buprenorphine and then within that week you can sign up for the virtual stuff and then know figure out what they want to do. Okay. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And how long ago did you go to the emergency room.
new: Oh, I was on the 4014
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so about 10 days ago. All right.
Jonathan Figg: And
new: All right.
Jonathan Figg: Do. Have you ever been to any kind of a or na meetings.
Yeah.
new: Yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: And when was that recently or a long time ago.
new: I've been to a handful of them of course of my life, I guess.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Have you thought about attending to more regularly recently.
new: Yeah, good. Okay. All right. Um,
Jonathan Figg: Let's talk about some of the other stuff that we need to kind of cover. Do you have any other medical conditions.
new: Nope allergic to penicillin.
new: Okay, a Marxist
Jonathan Figg: And did that happen like when you were a child or was a recent reaction.
new: When I was young. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: When you were young, have you had any surgeries.
new: No. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And do you currently have a job.
new: Or do okay what
Jonathan Figg: You do for work.
new: Part time school or right now but electrician kind of part time like Justin law side jobs here. Now while I go to school. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And what What school are you going to
new: American River. Okay, awesome.
And
Jonathan Figg: Do thinking about your family, mom, dad, brother sisters. Does anyone else have any problems with using substances.
They're
new: Not too much clean. Yeah. But yeah, for sure, but not with this specific one and not as long lasting.
new: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Was that a history of drugs or alcohol or both.
new: Both okay
Jonathan Figg: And who was that
new: Brother To Brother older brother, younger brother and older sister.
Jonathan Figg: And all three of them.
new: No, just one of them.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, your older brother, he said.
new: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: But you have an older brother, younger brother and older sister, okay, I understand it. Alright.
Jonathan Figg: Have you had any history or problems with your liver.
new: I wouldn't know. All right.
Jonathan Figg: Um, have you ever been tested for hepatitis or HIV.
new: I believe so. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: And do you know the results of that. Yeah.
new: Now I'm clean
Jonathan Figg: You came up negative. Good. Okay. All right, so what's your understanding of buprenorphine the medication were interested in using here.
new: And I was reading about him too, and I tried to explain to the people at the ER that it's not the same as the Suboxone you know
new: This way it actually doesn't have the no oxygen in it. Correct. The sublime text version, the pill version. No, not the sublingual version.
new: SEBI texts, what I had does not have naloxone in it. So that was just an opiate to wean myself down and like a safer OBO correct that there's a box as the
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, so there's two brands right we when we say Suboxone that's the brand, the actual medication is called buprenorphine Suboxone the brand.
Jonathan Figg: Has naloxone in it as well, which is the reversal agent and that's an abuse deterrent in there so that people don't
new: Hurt good though man is I've taken that before you can you can feel that part of it in your brain, you know, knocks on
Jonathan Figg: What do you mean, so
new: They benefits it that deterring where you can't get high, it alters your brain in a good way. You feel normal. Once
Jonathan Figg: Again, yeah. So let's talk about. So the two things in there. The buprenorphine is an opiate it's different in the way it works, then fentanyl or oxy or something like that. Phenol oxy those
Jonathan Figg: few important things they do, they turn on the pleasure center of your brains that gives you the high the euphoria, they turn off the pain receptors in your brain.
Jonathan Figg: What's your chart log out there, they turn off the receptors in your brain.
Jonathan Figg: And then they turn off the breathing and wakefulness centers in your brain, right. That's the overdose that we're concerned about if you if you take too much, you will stop breathing. Alright.
Jonathan Figg: buprenorphine. If you think about each of those actions as light switches okay buprenorphine only moves them halfway instead of all the way. So it doesn't give you the euphoria, the high. The other medication.
new: Right.
Jonathan Figg: It's a partial I actually right. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: And so it will stop your withdrawal, though, because it's still moves the switch, but it doesn't have the high and it doesn't turn off your breathing and wakefulness. The way the other ones do so by itself, it's exceedingly difficult to overdose on which makes it significantly safer thing.
Jonathan Figg: The nine o'clock zone is a reversal agent, and we'll talk about that. So the way that the medication is taken in this is dissolved under the tongue.
Jonathan Figg: There's a set of veins underneath the tongue that are in the skin is really, really thin
Jonathan Figg: So your saliva dissolves the tablet or their film and the buprenorphine crosses and gets into your bloodstream. So you get the effect of the north, and then the locks on is too big.
Jonathan Figg: Of the chemical and so it doesn't so you don't get that a lot. It's, it's a tiny fraction point out something 1% almost negligible amount of no lock so the. However, if you crush it and snort it or shoot it or something like
That
Jonathan Figg: And it puts people into withdrawal. So that's the abuse deterrent effect there.
Jonathan Figg: If you chew it up and swallow the pill or the film almost nothing is absorbed through the digestive tract, neither the buprenorphine or no oxygen. So it's like taking nothing so people will withdraw if they've been on something and take it the wrong way. So,
Jonathan Figg: Has to be taken a very specific way. But it is a safer medication and because it will keep people out of withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: It will move this word, so it suppresses the cravings do something else. But it doesn't have a high, it tends to be a more useful thing for people who are wanting to be in recovery.
Jonathan Figg: The other important part is that when you take buprenorphine and once it gets into your brain. It grabs on hold on to the receptor in your brain tighter than other things. And what that means is
Jonathan Figg: If you're on Suboxone and you take something else oxy fentanyl Norco whatever it won't get hold of the receptor, the buprenorphine will block the effect so you won't get the higher the effect of taking something else. So it helps deter people
new: From
Jonathan Figg: All. Hey, I have this on hand. I'm going to take it because they won't get the high from the base. So, that makes sense.
new: Yeah, I do.
Jonathan Figg: Know you were
new: You had a prescription, though. So are you like the opiate doctor or like are you like my doctor now or like what, like, are you just in this, like, like if I had like a nether like mental like anything like would you diagnose that or is it just per opiate right
Jonathan Figg: So I'm an internal medicine doctor. I'm a primary care doctor by trade by training and I specialize in addiction treatment, though I don't I don't generally do the other mental health stuff, depression, anxiety, things like that with bright side, I do addiction treatment.
Jonathan Figg: With
new: Bryce Are you like focused on you only prescribe likes box. And so, like, what if I was like trying to wean myself off and like I always have had trouble sleeping, like what I can be used for that or like
Jonathan Figg: Sometimes, but generally for broader mental health conditions. We want you to see your primary care doctor
Jonathan Figg: All right. Okay. Um,
Jonathan Figg: So, um, I wanted to ask you, you got a prescription from the ED for the buprenorphine and the Suboxone and the eight milligram form. It looks like most recently, and that was a 14 how much of that were you taking per day.
new: Oh my god. On the 14th and I didn't even take them until like the 15th like late the 15th. And then I was sober from my fence and off since like the 15th, but the first night to like three and I have honestly
new: stretched it out a little bit and took three and then
new: Had to go like a day of feeling like shit because I wasn't getting to you guys in time. And I knew I had a very limited supply. So I was doing like to
new: Know, and it went from like three to to to to to like I have like one left and I did like a half and a half, you know, just to something, but
new: The most I took was three. Though the last two days yesterday and the day before. I only had like a half or like a whole house but still feel pretty shitty but
Jonathan Figg: No. So when you're taking a half and a half in a day were you having symptoms of withdrawal.
new: For sure. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: When you were taking more than that to tablets in a day were you having symptoms of withdrawal.
new: Know it seemed like about two and a half did it for me three might have been a little too much or all I want. Probably, but maybe like two and a half or three a day was like what I needed at first. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So somewhere around two or two and a half, you felt like was a better place three was too much did it make you drowsy constipated, dry mouth, Domino pain, anything like that.
new: Okay, just
Jonathan Figg: need that much still felt okay on two and a half, okay.
Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so let's talk about your withdrawal when you withdraw from opiates. What's the general pattern of symptoms that you develop what happens first.
new: Just completely lethargic in the day this week, no appetite just feel like moving 1000 miles every step. But, and then at night, just like terrible restless legs can't sleep at all, you know,
new: Okay, well, gee, stuff like that, no appetite just looked Arctic no motivation, nothing.
Jonathan Figg: Do you get nauseated.
new: Really
Do you have diarrhea.
new: Sometimes, yeah.
new: Runny nose. Yeah. Use bumps.
Jonathan Figg: Right. And does that kind of develop as time goes on.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Are you totally out of Suboxone no
Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Alright, so your last dose was last night. Just to make sure I understand that.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And where are you currently as far as your withdrawal in the way symptoms develop what do you currently have.
new: I get it. The worst at nighttime so
new: I wouldn't be, it would be a rough night like sleeping night but just like a little unmotivated like lethargic, but tolerable for now but I get it, like the rest of his legs asleep, is what really gets me. Gotcha. Okay. All right.
All right, I think.
Jonathan Figg: I think that's the majority of the questions. So whatever to just the way it let me, let me explain how bright side works so brightside is an addiction treatment program that is based around weekly support groups.
Jonathan Figg: So the way the support groups work is we put you into a group that meets by zoom here like just like we're meeting.
Jonathan Figg: With other people who have gone through or are going through similar situations with a history of opiate addiction independence.
Jonathan Figg: Who are in various stages of recovery and it's kind of like an NA meeting. It's led by a counselor or therapist with a history in addiction treatment.
Jonathan Figg: And it started. It's about an hour long and it starts with a check in with the doctor. So you basically get access to your doctor on a weekly or every other week basis.
Jonathan Figg: To make sure your medication doses right that you're not having side effects where you are, as far as are you keeping a stable dose. Are you tapering are you going up or down, things like that. And to make sure that you don't run out of medication.
Jonathan Figg: And then the therapist has some kind of topic about preventing relapse or stress management, you know, various topics and things like that.
Jonathan Figg: We see
Jonathan Figg: I have a Tuesday 3pm group that has openings. Would that work for you.
new: I got cool actually get what are your other times that day or
Jonathan Figg: I have a Thursday 3pm as well that has openings. What's your schedule like
new: Monday. Monday, Wednesday tend to
new: They tend to be and then whose day there is a 123
Jonathan Figg: I see. Okay, so those are those are bump up too much. Okay. And then here's what I'll do, I'll have one of the care coordinators.
Jonathan Figg: Get ahold of you right after this to figure out a different group that that I'm not the only doctor, we have quite a few doctors and they have other various times that may work better for your schedule. Okay.
new: So when you be my doctor or would I have a different doctor different time what
Jonathan Figg: You probably have a different doctor so that you would be able to see them on a regular basis, you know, depending on your schedule, if
new: You're only a Tuesday, Doctor.
Jonathan Figg: So I have openings on Tuesday and Thursday at 3pm for my groups. Currently, but those don't work for you and that's okay. I want you to, you know, be successful in school and have a job and things like that. So we have other groups, run by other doctors
Jonathan Figg: As well.
new: Let's try them Tuesday. We're trying to say.
Jonathan Figg: Do you think you'd be able to
new: Be able to do it. I just, I get I think I'll be fine. Honestly, I get out like 230 or something. So, okay.
Jonathan Figg: Because I don't want it to be a stress point for you.
new: I think I'd rather just wrap it all up, it might be better.
new: I think I'll be able to do. I wouldn't, I tell you. Now, if I was going to be there.
Jonathan Figg: And just so you understand its weekly, it would be every Tuesday at 3pm.
new: Okay, it's only one every Tuesday or Thursday, right,
new: Right.
Jonathan Figg: Oh yeah. Those are just my availability, so yes. Correct. So we will get you signed up into the Tuesday at 3pm group and me and the therapist. With me is her name is Yvonne, and she's great. And then we have other patients who are going through recovery and are
You know, in similar or have been. And so our situations to you.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And then what we'll do is I'll issue you a prescription for
Jonathan Figg: The Suboxone. Let me see. Make sure is right eight on Folsom Boulevard, the correct pharmacy for you.
new: For okay
Jonathan Figg: Here. Here's another one more question about the medication. First day gave you a script for films and the second time, most recently they give you a script for tabs. Is that correct,
new: Yeah, I think good tabs work i don't know i they work a little better for me the strips were disgusting for me.
Jonathan Figg: Do you know if there was any issue as far as what your insurance would pay for
new: Yeah, my insurance didn't want the strips. That's why I got the tabs. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So we'll send for the tabs that she's one less headache to jump through
Jonathan Figg: One was hurdles to jump through. OK. So I'm going to send it for a dose of two and a half. What I would say just since it takes about five to 10 minutes usually for the thing to dissolve under your tongue.
Jonathan Figg: If you can do more than one that's great if you want to split it up and do it like one and a half and one later in the day.
One and a half in the morning.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. That would probably be easier.
Jonathan Figg: The medication usually last 24 hours of 28 hours and most people system, but sometimes we split up the dosing just for convenience sake. So that would be fine. And then we'd be able to join us tomorrow at 3pm. The first Tuesday.
Jonathan Figg: Sure. Okay. Cool. All you need to do as I know you'll be leaving school. But as soon as you're able to tomorrow before 3pm. You're going to call the virtual clinic, just like you did before our appointment today and then they'll make sure any
new: First number this this number or the very
Jonathan Figg: First, the first number that you call that's our virtual. It's kind of like a front desk of a medical
new: That you have that again.
Jonathan Figg: I'll have to pull it up. I'll get it for you, though, and then
Jonathan Figg: They'll make sure everything's taken care of. As far as paperwork or urine drug screens and things like that. And they'll give you our room number which changes every week for the group. Okay. All right, cool. Um, alright, all this your prescription. Do you have any questions or concerns, I'm
new: Just curious, have you ever
new: Talked to people in person and we have you ever did you start off in person and lead to this virtual end of Dr. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: So I I practice. I have my primary care practices. I live in Jackson, Wyoming.
new: And when you're
new: You know,
Jonathan Figg: You're in. I can pull it up.
new: In California,
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, I'm unlicensed you're in Sacramento. Okay unlicensed in California as well so
Jonathan Figg: I have a primary care practice where I also do addiction treatment here in Jackson and then I do telemedicine because that lets me help more people
new: Besides the virtual
Jonathan Figg: I find it's really convenient for a lot of people
Jonathan Figg: I enjoy it. Yeah.
new: Oh, okay.
Jonathan Figg: Any other questions or concerns, I can help you with right now.
Jonathan Figg: Of the trend. I'm an issue, your prescription. I usually recommend give it about an hour or so and then go to the pharmacy just so
new: How long does that last. What is it, how every until Tuesday every Tuesday I come in to you or
Jonathan Figg: So I'm going to issue a prescription for a little over a week just to get you through this weekend, and the next week.
Jonathan Figg: And then my suspicion is that will play with your dose, a little bit. And then as we stabilize out the prescriptions will get longer just for convenience sake.
Jonathan Figg: With bright side, our policies are. I want to give you as long leash.
Jonathan Figg: As long a prescription as I can to help you succeed to keep you functional to keep you, you know, able to, you know, so that you're not spending all your time with the pharmacy when people
Jonathan Figg: Buy policy when people start missing groups which prevents them from recovering as well. Then we start shortening the prescriptions so that they have to come back to the group and be engaged in the program.
new: They say, okay,
Jonathan Figg: Our goal is to support people as best we can in their recovery from as many angles as we can. So all
Jonathan Figg: Right. All right, then I will have them all have the care coordinator follow up with you because I can pull up the virtual clinic zoom number right now. And that way, don't make sure you have all the information you need for tomorrow. Okay.
new: All right, thanks.
Jonathan Figg: Awesome. You have a wonderful evening, go to the pharmacy in about an hour, hour and a half to you.
Jonathan Figg: Take care. Bye bye.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so we pulled trends cures report during the visit, which shows you didn't initially, go to your printer feigning prescription for 10 milligrams. And then for eight milligrams and that would be from the
Jonathan Figg: Emergency room, which is what he was talking about, and then back in 2019 there's scripts for triathlon, which is probably
Jonathan Figg: The detox program that he talked about
Jonathan Figg: And to get back to we pulled his as I am an expert questionnaires and as I am. I didn't see anything concerning
He's quite functional
But he has used in the past 30 days and then Esper
Jonathan Figg: His audit score was zero. So I'm not concerned about him drinking
Jonathan Figg: So we'll issue him a prescription and a dose of
Jonathan Figg: Two and a half would be 20 milligrams per day split that up and then he will join our Tuesday 3pm.